# lg-rez

*(Français)* lg-rez est un bot Discord pour encadrer des parties endiablées de Loup-Garou à la PCéenne.

*(English)* lg-rez is a Discord bot for organizing boisterous Werewolf RP games ESPCI-style.



## Installation

Use the package manager [pip](https://pypi.org/project/pip/) to install lg-rez:

```bash
pip install lg-rez
```

We strongly recommand to install this package in a dedicated virtualenv (`python3 -m venv <yourfolder>`).


### Dependencies

* Python 3.8+
* Packages: **...** (see [`requirements.txt`](requirements.txt))



## Configuration

To run correctly, the bot needs to be connected to several external services, each needing more or less sensitive tokens, stocked as environments variables. We support and encourage the use of [`python-dotenv`](https://pypi.org/project/python-dotenv/) to read them from a `.env` file, but you may prefer exporting them as usual environment variables.

All necessary variables, prefixed by `LGREZ_`, are listed in the [`model.env`](model.env) file.


### Configuration Assistant Tool

We provide a command-line assistant tool to help you set up every services and generate the `.env` file (which you can later `source` and delete if you wish).

Run it simply with:

```bash
cd <your/code/folder>
<your/venv>/bin/python -m lgrez
```

This tool also creates a `bot.py` file containing the minimal code needed to run the bot (see *Usage* section below).


### Manual configuration

You may prefer to manually write your environment variables, or just check instructions regarding a specific one: they can be found in the [`CONFIGURE.md`](CONFIGURE.md) file.

**Warning**: the Configuration Assistant Tool checks every variable by running tests, which is not the case for manual configuration, so be sure of what you do!



## Usage

The minimal code needed to run the bot in a configured folder (generated by the configuration assistant tool) is:

```py
from lgrez import LGBot

bot = LGBot()
bot.run()
```

### Bot usage

Once the bot connected to your Discord server, use `!help` to see every available commands (remember to grant yourself the "`MJ`" role before!) \
Use `!help command` to an advanced documentation about each command.

For precisions relative to other features (such as "IA" reactions to messages), look at the corresponding (commented and documented) file in [`features`](features).


### Customization

Since `LGBot` is a subclass of [`discord.ext.commands.Bot`](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/commands/api.html#bot), every arguments and methods described in the documentation can be used, and you can subclass it to override existing behaviour.

Some useful examples:

#### Change command prefix

```py
from lgrez import LGBot

bot = LGBot(command_prefix="?")
bot.run()
```

#### Disable a command or alias

```py
from lgrez import LGBot

bot = LGBot()
bot.remove_command("command_name")
bot.run()
```

#### Add a command or change a command behaviour

```py
from discord.ext import commands
from lgrez import LGBot

@commands.command()
async def mycommand(ctx, ...):
    ...

bot = LGBot()
bot.remove_command("mycommand")     # If replacing an existing command
bot.add_command(mycommand)
bot.run()
```

#### Enhance or change an event reaction

```py
from lgrez import LGBot

async def say_hello(bot, member):
    await member.send("Hey!")

class MyBot(LGBot):
    """Your customized bot class"""
    async def on_member_join(self, member):
        await say_hello(self, member)
        super().on_member_join(member)      # Call the original reaction

bot = MyBot()
bot.run()
```

See [discord.py documentation](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/) for more ideas.



## Contributing

Community contributions are not welcome for now. Get in touch with the authors (see below) for any question or suggestion about this project.



## License
This work is shared under [the MIT license](LICENSE).

© 2020 Loïc Simon, Tom Lacoma et al. – Club BD-Jeux × GRIs – ESPCI Paris - PSL

Reach us on Discord: [LaCarpe#1674](https://discordapp.com/users/264482202966818825), [TaupeOrAfk#3218](https://discordapp.com/users/176763552202358785) or by mail: [loic.simon@espci.org](mailto:loic.simon@espci.org)
